hello movie fans and welcome back to
another full movie recap with movie
reveals in today's video we're going to
break down the brilliant fantasy action
movie called the 13th warrior warning
guys spoiler alert before the dawn the
second millennium in 922 a.d the city of
baghdad is the center of highest
civilization within its culture
protection young achmed enjoys the
privileges of a prominent position as a
poet until he attempts to court a woman
married to a jealous man who happens to
be friends with the caliph achmed is
then appointed ambassador to the distant
nordic land of the toss-up vlad this is
basically a noble way of banishing him
ahmed is traveling by caravan with his
mentor and friend melchizedek when they
are attacked by a ban of tartars who
abandon the chase when the caravan
reaches the riverside and a viking boat
is seen approaching the land
a little further they reach a viking
camp where other viking boats are
already ashore the caravan then stops at
the viking camp for the night the
vikings seem to be having some kind of
celebration
ackman through melchizedek tries to
communicate with the vikings to learn
who is their king but none of them
understands the different languages they
try to speak they finally find a man who
speaks greek named herger herger
explains there is no king at the moment
as the last one just died the
celebration they are witnessing is
actually part of their king's funeral he
then introduces ackman to billy with who
is considered the heir apparent to the
throne biliwiff is then attacked in
front of everyone by a man whom he kills
without hesitation and self-defense
which seems to secure his place as the
new leader ackman then attends the
king's funerals and joins the vikings in
their night of festivities although
without drinking
ackman finds himself appalled by viking
customs their disregard for cleanliness
and their cold-blooded human sacrifices
the next day ackman finds that a new
ship has arrived carrying aboard a young
boy as a messenger from king hrothgar of
venden
king is seeking billy whips help us his
kingdom is being threatened by an army
of evil beasts known to vikings as an
old evil that shall not be named
biliwiff calls upon the angel of death
which is revealed to be an old sioux
stare who cast bones to guide them the
old woman claims that billy wish shall
be victorious if 13 of his warriors
travel up north to battle this evil she
then calls for the first warrior and
billy with himself steps forward
he is then followed by 11 other men
which include herder the joyous whose
love of women is only exceeded by his
love of fighting healthy and the large
run of the horsemen rethel the archer
skelled the superstitious with the
musician etched though the silent help
of the wise he'd like the coral sum
halts half the boy and ragnar the dower
when she calls for the 13th warrior the
old lady specifies that it needs to be a
man that is not from the north
everyone quickly turns to ackman who is
forced by peer pressure to accept
branded as the foreigner they need to
succeed ahmed reluctantly prepares his
arabian horse which is the smallest of
the group for the journey the north men
make fun of akman's horse for his size
calling it a dog in their native
language which ackman doesn't understand
but gets the translation from
melchizedek they then ask ackman for his
name
ahmed gives them his full name but they
shorten it to evan because of the
repetition in his name of the word iben
which means son of but they interpret it
as evan
as the events progress most of the
vikings will take to calling him arrow
except for herger who will call him evan
or little brother and billy with who
will try to call him achmed on a few
occasions out of respect
for the next few days and nights evan
remains silent closely observing the
men's lips as they talk to each other
listening to them analyzing their
interactions reactions and behaviors
between each other he slowly starts to
make out words and what they likely mean
in their language
he soon finds himself able to understand
most of their conversations although he
still does not speak
one night as the men are antagonizing
each other one of them insults evan's
mother which causes him to speak for the
first time surprising the men when he is
able to acknowledge the insult and
retaliate with one of his own in their
language
impressed by how quickly evan learned
their language billy with uses the next
moment he is alone with evan to ask him
if he knows how to draw sounds which is
his way of describing arabic writing
evan confirms he can write and read
biliwiff asks him to show him evan
writes in the sand there is only one god
and muhammad is his
builder with stairs at the writing for a
moment then leaves satisfied
the next day the norsemen are still
making fun of ebon's horse but he shuts
them up with a demonstration of his
horsemanship and how high his horse can
actually jump throwing weather in the
mud in the process which makes all them
laugh build it with jokes that the dog
can jump which seems to close the
subject for good
after sailing through a nasty sea storm
and dense fog weather the warriors
finally make it to venden land where
they arm themselves before stepping out
of their boat billywiff takes a moment
to write in the sand what eben showed
him earlier although with a slight
mistake revealing he has enjoyed the
small lesson from ebon and values his
knowledge urger then provides evan with
one of their swords which is much too
big and heavy for him
as they arrive into venden they quickly
noticed the lack of proper defenses
available and the lack of men to defend
it which explains why king hrofger his
young wife queen wailu and hrofger's
treacherous son whitlef have been unable
to stop their enemies rampage so far
the king confirms that their foe is
indeed the ancient threat known as
wendell evil fiends who come with the
mystic kill and take human heads
as the men are discussing the situation
and whether the king is telling the
truth or has just gone mad evan sees a
bloodied half-naked kid running towards
the village crying
queen wylu recognizes the kid and leads
them to his farm sid where they find
several human bodies that were
completely ripped apart even not upon
they also find a venus figurine
representing the mother of the wendells
upon investigating the area further they
find that the wendells could be smart
cautious and may be observing them at
the moment the warriors opt to not try
to find them but let them come to them
instead
at dinner evan is surprised to find his
new friends are not drinking for the
first time since he's been with them
wiglift son of the king tries to
antagonize billywiff who simply replies
that he has not heard of any
accomplishments from wiglef besides
killing his brothers to get where he is
now
wigliff leaves the table angered
the warriors then speak to a man who
survived a recent wendell raid in
another village who can only describe
them with beastly features such as lion
teeth bare head walking on both two and
four legs at times and fighting with
sharp claws
they always come in the mist at the
darkest of the night edgeton notes there
will be fog tonight
the old king offers bilowith to stand
guard with them but biliwiff turns him
down politely at the behest of the queen
they then prepare for the night and go
to sleep in a circular room
evan questions how they can sleep in a
time like this but herder replies that
his fate and his death are already fixed
so he might as well not worry about it
and just live freely and not in fear
evan falls asleep but awakens quickly
from a nightmare looking around him he
realizes everyone else is only
pretending to be asleep as something
seems to be lurking outside herger
whispers to him that when the fight
starts they will stand in the middle of
the room and circle back to back
evan objects that he is not a warrior
but herger tells him he is about to
become one
moments later the fight starts and
everyone jumps into action including
evan although he is violently thrown
across the room and suffers lacerations
to his face evan survives the encounter
almost unharmed while he black and
ragnar are killed and beheaded the men
are worried when they realize they
cannot find any wendell body even though
they know they have killed a few of them
abbott gets his face scars treated by
aldo before helping the village to build
up some much needed defenses
he is told to use his massive sword to
cut out wooden stakes but he is unable
to do so since he can barely lift his
sword
tired of failing eben visits the local
blacksmith and uses his tools to
transform the massive viking stored into
a really sharp arabian scimitar which he
uses to cut out the wooden stakes much
more easily the vikings still playfully
make fun of the sword for its smaller
size but evan laughs with them
showcasing a little bit of his sword
handling skills
later that day as evan takes a break
from his work and talks with olga she
reveals that wigliff has been purposely
spreading rumors that beliwith intends
to usurp the king and take his place
eben shares the information with billy
with and herder who decide they need to
make an example
herger picks up a fight with angus
wibbles friend who's much taller younger
and stronger than herger the fight
escalates to a three shields sword fight
to the death each man has to break all
three of their opponent's shields before
they are allowed to kill him
herder loses his three shields rather
easily and seems quite exhausted from
the pounding when wiglef signals angus
to go for the kill
as angus goes for the finishing blow
herger swiftly moves his sides and kills
angus in one blow revealing it was all a
deception meant to make the prince
fearful of what he doesn't know
confident the deception is enough to
keep wiglef out of their way biliwife
and his men resume the fortification of
the village
as they get closer to the night evan and
edge though see the fire serpent or fire
worm they kept hearing about announcing
the imminent attack from the wendells
as the men await the attack they spot a
little girl running towards the village
just ahead of the fire serpent evan
jumps on his horse and jumps the fence
to save the child and bring her back to
the village which allows him to get a
closer look at the fire serpent and
realize the serpent is just wendell
warriors riding horses closely to one
another carrying torches
the men spread out around the village
and the battle begins evan is
surprisingly able to kill one of the
wendells and soon realizes the wendells
are just men disguised as beasts as soon
as he understands his enemies are just
men eben suddenly released his fears
slips into a murderous rage and kills
every wendell he can get his hands on to
the amusement of herger the warriors
fight well and the wendells eventually
opt to retreat for now having killed
skeld haga ronith and rethel during the
battle
eben shaken from the fight shares a
drink with herger and olga after finding
out viking mead is made with honey not
wheat which technically is not forbidden
by his religion
evan then spends the night with olga as
they both comfort each other the next
day evan rejoins billywiff and his men
to discuss their next step
their number is dwindling and their
position all but indefensible they
consult an ancient valve of the village
she advises them to track the wendell to
their lair and destroy their leader the
mother of the wendell and their warlord
who wears the horns of power
the warriors leave the village to try
and hunt down the wendell they quickly
learn that the wendall are quite easy to
track revealing they are no longer
worried about the warriors coming after
them after finding bear skulls evan
reflects on what he knows about them so
far
they dress like bears walks like them
and fight with bare claws
evan deduces they see themselves as
bears and probably live like them too
billy with understands his line of
thinking and orders his men to look for
a cave nearby which they find
biliwiff and the remaining warriors
silently sneak into the windows
underground hideout all the way to the
deepest part where the mother's lair is
found
while the warriors form a line of
defense against the wendells who are now
aware of their presence billywiff enters
the mother's lair to fight her
he is able to kill her quickly but not
before he is scratched deeply across the
shoulder by her poison claw
the warriors then escape through an
underwater cave they found that leads
back to the outside losing healthy along
the way who decides he's had enough and
stays behind to block the windows and
give his friends more time to escape
they also find out that biluf is
weakening fast and may not live another
day they return to the village where
billy with is touched to see evan being
sad about his upcoming death
king hrothgar promises gilu if he will
be buried as a king but biliwiff replies
he would feel much more wealthy and
honored if someone were to draw the
story of his deeds a wish eben
understands was directed at him
he also understands now why beliwith was
interested in his ability to write all
along
as billed with awaits death the other
warriors and the villagers prepare for a
battle they know is coming as they
expect the wendells will seek vengeance
for killing their mother before the
battle akhmad takes a moment to remove
his boots and armor and kneels in the
mud to pray that he may live the next
few minutes of his life well and asks
for forgiveness for everything he should
have done or said in his life but didn't
as the battle is about to begin and the
warriors are preoccupied by the sheer
number of enemies standing in front of
them billy with staggers outside looking
to die fighting instead of just waiting
and stares down the wendell's warlord he
inspires his men including akhmad by
reciting a viking prayer for the honored
dead who will enter valhalla the battle
gets underway and although weakened by
the poison biliwife succeeds in killing
the wendell warward which causes the
wendell army to retreat immediately just
as the old vulva had predicted
bielewith then sits on a made-up throne
and dies as the figure of a proud
warrior king that the wendell people
should fear standing watch over the
village
later on akbar witnesses billy whis
royal funeral before returning to his
homeland grateful to the norsemen for
helping him to become a man and a useful
servant of god
ackman goes home where in respect to
billywiff's dying wish he writes the
tale of his journey with the men from
the north as the 13th warrior
the end
make sure to subscribe and hit the
notification button so you get alerted
next time we upload a video thanks for
watching